first let us take the alternate bit
Number 10 and write
It's binary representation
Here we can see that the number 10 has alternate
bits 1010
Now To solve this problem we need to create some
mask value or do some tricks
Now what will happen if we shift the alternate bit
Number one position to the right the resulted Number still
has the alternate bit pattern but the bit position will
change like this
Now if we do XOR on those two numbers
it will set different bits to 1 and the remaining bits
will remain as zero as XOR of equal bits
is zero now
In this result we can see that all the right
most bits are set to one
And from the power of two logic we can understand
that this resulted number is a previous number of power
of two number that is the resulted number is
two rise two n minus one number so it's next
number must be a power of two number
For example here resulted number is 15 and it's
next number is 16
Number 16 is a power of two number so after
performing XOR we need to check whether the next number
of XOR result is a power of two or
not
If the XOR result plus one is a power of two
we can say that the given number has an alternate bit
pattern on its binary representation
Otherwise it is not so
The logic is very simple
First right shift given number by one position to the
right
Next do XOR on the given number and the
right shifted number and finally check the resulted number that
is number plus one is a power of two and
finally check
The resulted number plus one is a power of two
If it is a power of two return one otherwise
return zero.